-- this text file looks at the history of POSIX

This week lecture covered regular expressions.
We focused on general regular expressions and POSIX.
POSIX is the regular expression for postgres

POSIX stands for Portable Operating System Interface. It defines a 
set of standard operating system interfaces based on the UNIX OS. 
These standards are specified by the IEEE (Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers) society which the compatibility between 
different operating systems. POSIX systems are theorized in such a 
way that data or code can be transferred seamlessly between any 
two systems that are POSIX compliant.

POSIX standards define application programming interfaces (API) at 
both the system and user levels and command-line shells and utility 
interfaces for software compatibility and/or portability with various 
distributions of the Unix Operating System and other operating systems 
as well. The IEEE also owns the trademark of POSIX. Developers are 
encouraged to use POSIX as it saves time for developers all around 
the world along with providing easier means for portability.

History of POSIX:
Earlier, computer programmers had to write different programs from ground
zero for every single computer model. This was time-consuming and in most
cases very difficult as each computer model was somehow different than 
the other and special care had to be taken to write a program keeping 
their hardware in mind. After AT&T Bell Labs launched the Unix OS, nothing
was the same anymore. Unix quickly became popular and various different 
distributions like BSD, Xenix, etc. came into the picture. The introduction 
of newer operating systems like Unix would make it even more difficult for 
developers to maintain their software among so many devices and now operating 
systems too. This prompted the establishment of some standards that later came 
to be known as POSIX. They were first released under the name IEEE Standard 
1003.1-1988 in the year 1988. The main aim was to establish some sort of pre-defined 
rules for future systems to maintain portability regardless of their hardware or manufacturers.